These requirements do not apply to direct sunlight conditions. If adjustments are required to the light intensity level at the inspection surface or the light intensity is found to be less than 50 foot-candles when measured upon completion of the inspection, all components inspected since the most recent light intensity level verification shall be re-inspected.

## 7.26.4 Procedure and Acceptance Criteria

a. Thread Lead: The thread lead shall be measured using a lead gauge. Only threads between the pin nose and the designated thread root at L2 for a pin connection or between the box face and the designated thread root at the PTL for a box connection shall be subjected to a lead measurement. Lead measurements shall be made starting at the full-height thread closest to the nose of a pin connection or face of a box connection and continued at 1 inch intervals if the nominal OD of the tubing with which the connection is compatible is at least 2-7/8 inches or 1/2 inch intervals if the nominal OD of the tubing with which the connection is compatible is less than 2-7/8 inches until the full-height thread farthest from the pin nose or box face is measured and the overlap interval is measured (if applicable). If a seal-ring groove is present in a box connection, lead measurements shall be taken with all gauge balls placed where the full thread forms are on each side of the gauge balls. The partial threads adjacent to the groove shall be avoided when measuring lead. The thread lead shall be:

- ±0.003 inch per inch for 1 inch intervals on new and used connections; and
- ±0.0015 inch per inch for 1/2 inch intervals on new and used connections.

b. Pin Connection Taper: The external thread taper gauge shall be used to measure the taper of a pin connection. The movable gauge ball shall be diametrically opposite the fixed gauge ball. The gauge shall be applied to the full-height thread closest to the nose of the pin connection with the fixed gauge ball held firmly within the thread root while the movable gauge ball is oscillated through an arc within the thread root. The dial pointer should indicate zero at the maximum reading and shall be adjusted if the reading is not zero. The gauge shall be applied at 1 inch intervals past the full-height thread closest to the nose of the pin connection if the nominal OD of the tubing with which the connection is compatible is at least 2-7/8 inches or 1/2 inch intervals if the nominal OD of the tubing with which the connection is compatible is less than 2-7/8 inches until the full-height thread farthest from the pin nose is measured and the overlap interval is measured (if applicable). The taper shall be:

- 0.063 inch per inch, + 0.005 inch per inch, - 0.003 inch per inch for new connections; and
- 0.063 inch per inch, + 0.005 inch per inch, - 0.005 inch per inch for used connections.

c. Box Connection Taper: The internal thread taper gauge shall be used to measure the taper of a box connection. The gauge shall be placed with the fixed gauge ball on the fifth thread from the center for 8-round connections and on the sixth thread from the center for 10-round connections. The movable contact shall be placed on the bottom thread that is diametrically opposite the fixed gauge ball. The dial pointer should indicate zero at this position as the movable gauge ball is oscillated through an arc within the thread root. The gauge shall be applied at 1 inch intervals past the starting thread if the nominal OD of the tubing with which the connection is compatible is at least 2-7/8 inches or 1/2 inch intervals past the starting thread if the nominal OD of the tubing with which the connection is compatible is less than 2-7/8 inches from the original location until the full-height thread farthest from the box face is measured. The taper shall be 0.063 inch per inch, + 0.005 inch per inch, - 0.003 inch per inch for new and used connections.

d. Thread Height: The thread height gauge shall be used to measure the thread height of all threads between the pin nose and the designated thread root at LC, except the thread closest to the pin nose, or between the box face and the designated thread root at the PTL, except the thread closest to the box face. The tip of the thread height gauge shall be placed in the thread root with the anvil of the gauge resting on the crest of the thread. The anvil shall be aligned with the axis of the threads by oscillating the gauge through an arc about the longitudinal axis of the anvil. The thread height is indicated correctly when the dial indicator stops moving near the center of the arc. The thread height shall be:

- 0.071 inch, +0.002 inch, -0.004 inch for 8-round threads on new connections;
- 0.056 inch, +0.002 inch, -0.004 inch for 10 round threads on new connections;

115