b. The full-height thread length (minimum length of full-crest threads), LC, of the pin connection, included in Figure 7.55, shall be measured using a metal ruler from the nose of the pin connection to the distance in Table 7.54 for a pin connection compatible with a box connection from non-upset tubing, Table 7.55 for a pin connection compatible with a box connection from externally upset tubing, or Table 7.56 for a pin connection compatible with a box connection from integral tubing. The root of the thread closest to the measured LC but not at a length less than LC shall be identified. This will be used as a reference point for the dimensional API round connection inspection procedure.

c. The effective thread length, L2, of the pin connection, included in Figure 7.55, shall be measured using a metal ruler from the nose of the pin connection to the distance in Table 7.54 for a pin connection compatible with a box connection from non-upset tubing, Table 7.55 for a pin connection compatible with a box connection from externally upset tubing, or Table 7.56 for a pin connection compatible with a box connection from integral tubing. The root of the thread closest to the measured L2 but not at a length less than L2 shall be identified. This will be used as a reference point for the dimensional API round connection inspection procedure.

d. Total Length of a Box Connection: The total length of a box connection, included in Figure 7.56, shall be measured from the box face to the last scratch farthest from the box face using the metal ruler. This measurement shall be recorded as the box length and shall meet requirements From Table 7.57 for a box connection compatible with a pin connection from non-upset tubing, Table 7.58 for a box connection compatible with a pin connection from externally upset tubing, or Table 7.59 for a box connection compatible with a pin connection from integral tubing, or the connection shall be rejected.

e. Perfect Thread Length (PTL): The Perfect Thread Length (PTL) of the box connection shall be determined by subtracting Reference Dimension A, shown in Figure 7.56, from the actual box length that was recorded in accordance with Paragraph 7.26.3.d. The value for Reference Dimension A is included in Table 7.57 for a box connection compatible with a pin connection from non-upset tubing, Table 7.58 for a box connection compatible with a pin connection from externally upset tubing, or Table 7.59 for a box connection compatible with a pin from integral tubing. This mathematically determined PTL shall be measured from the face of the box connection using the metal ruler. The root of the thread that is closest to the mathematically determined PTL but not at a length less than the PTL shall be identified. This will be used as a reference point for the visual API round connection inspection procedure.

f. If the nominal OD of the tubing with which the connection is compatible is at least 2-7/8 inches, the connection shall be divided into 1 inch intervals starting with the full-height thread root closest to the nose of a pin connection or face of a box connection. The final inspection interval shall coincide with the designated thread root at LC for a pin connection or at the PTL for a box connection, or an overlapping interval shall be provided. An overlapping interval is provided by starting at the designated thread root at LC or at the PTL and identifying thread roots towards the pin nose or box face until the new interval overlaps the previously designated interval.

g. If the nominal OD of the tubing with which the connection is compatible is less than 2-7/8 inches, the connection shall be divided into 1/2 inch intervals starting with the full-height thread root closest to the nose of a pin connection or face of a box connection. The final inspection interval shall coincide with the designated thread root at LC for a pin connection or at the PTL for a box connection, or an overlapping interval shall be provided. An overlapping interval is provided by starting at the designated thread root at LC or at the PTL and identifying thread roots towards the pin nose or box face until the new interval overlaps the previously designated interval.

h. The minimum illumination level at the inspection surface shall be 50 foot-candles. The white light intensity level at the inspection surface must be verified:

- At the start of each inspection;
- When light fixtures change positions or intensity;
- Where there is a change in relative position of the inspected surface with respect to the light fixture;
- When requested by the customer or a designated representative;
- Upon completion of the inspection.